feat(huggingface): add responses api support (#7788)
vercel/ai: content/providers/01-ai-sdk-providers/170-huggingface.mdx

---
title: Hugging Face
description: Learn how to use Hugging Face Provider.
---

# Hugging Face Provider

> The [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/) provider offers access to thousands of language models through the Hugging Face Hub via the Responses API, including models from Meta, DeepSeek, Qwen, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/) provider offers access to thousands of language models through [Hugging Face Inference Providers](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-providers/index), including models from Meta, DeepSeek, Qwen, and more.
```

<Tabs items={['pnpm', 'npm', 'yarn', 'bun']}>
  <Tab>
    <Snippet text="pnpm add @ai-sdk/huggingface" dark />
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    <Snippet text="npm install @ai-sdk/huggingface" dark />
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    <Snippet text="yarn add @ai-sdk/huggingface" dark />
  </Tab>

  <Tab>
    <Snippet text="bun add @ai-sdk/huggingface" dark />
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Provider Instance

You can import the default provider instance `huggingface` from `@ai-sdk/huggingface`:

```ts
import { huggingface } from '@ai-sdk/huggingface';
```

For custom configuration, you can import `createHuggingFace` and create a provider instance with your settings:

```ts
import { createHuggingFace } from '@ai-sdk/huggingface';

const huggingface = createHuggingFace({
  apiKey: process.env.HF_TOKEN ?? '',
});
```

You can use the following optional settings to customize the Hugging Face provider instance:

- **baseURL** _string_

  Use a different URL prefix for API calls, e.g. to use proxy servers.
  The default prefix is `https://router.huggingface.co/v1`.

- **apiKey** _string_

  API key that is being sent using the `Authorization` header. It defaults to

>   the `HF_TOKEN` environment variable.

Reviewer 2: should we link here again to where I can get a hugging face token?

https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens

- **headers** _Record&lt;string,string&gt;_

  Custom headers to include in the requests.

- **fetch** _(input: RequestInfo, init?: RequestInit) => Promise&lt;Response&gt;_

  Custom [fetch](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetch) implementation.

## Language Models

You can create language models using a provider instance:

```ts
import { huggingface } from '@ai-sdk/huggingface';
import { generateText } from 'ai';

const { text } = await generateText({
  model: huggingface('deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-V3-0324'),
  prompt: 'Write a vegetarian lasagna recipe for 4 people.',
});

> ```

Reviewer 2: I'm getting this error

> 400 The requested model 'deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-V3-0324' is not supported by any provider you have enabled

Is there a step I'm missing? I tried both fine-grained and full write-access tokens
